so we're all of a sudden wait a minute
this these businesses are surviving so
we're going to go focus on them and then
once everything came out of the great
financial crisis like around 20112 in
our
industry it was really interesting I
actually found a document the other day
in my archives from 2017 of all of our
competitors and there was like 20 names
I I don't even remember and and I always
I don't know if you surf Jason but if
you duck dive under a wave and on a
surfboard you go underwater you come up
the other side I always think of that as
the great financial crisis because when
we ducked over that wave with 30 other
Surfers we're the only ones who came up
the other side everybody did it was
extinction level event in the C it was
an extinction level event which gave us
this huge Advantage too of buying us
more time to capture the market share
everyone saster watching
listening running with your podcast
however you're going to consume this
content we have one of the great SAS
Founders who I'm excited tried to get
him to SAS annual in person before
things have changed but we've got two
who is the co and founder of
procore the
leading SAS for construction management
we'll dig into what that means in a
minute but it's great if there's
probably there there's two or three
great vertical SAS players we can talk
about and procore might be one of the
ones that folks know the least about
although you should know a lot more
about especially because we've got a
Founder Co who's been running it for a
few years how I want have you been doing
it toy 23 years and counting so yeah
yeah quite some time so I want to talk
next about how a little bit about the
past and mostly about the future but how
it's the platform's evolved yeah but you
don't look tired how have you done this
for 23 years I've done a pretty good job
of
keeping the drama and the concerns and
the chaos of the business out of my
personal life and I think that was
really critical and my wife has been
very good about this for the last 23
years when I get home from work at night
I am not the CEO of procore I am tuy the
husband who you know we talk about
everything other than procore so it's
been a I've been trying to balance this
for a long time balance yeah of course
she falls asleep and then all I do is
procore until until I can't keep my eyes
open any longer so I I fake it a lot
when I'm at home too so it never turn
for a great founder it never turn your
brain never turns off even after 23
years it never turns off no it always
gets me wondering Jason like some day
when they put me out to pasture like
what am I going to do because I think
pretty much everything I think about has
to do with some permutation of procore
so yeah yeah you're gonna have to get a
hobby or something I wanted get some
quantitative data my rough sense from
the folks that I've interacted with over
the years that have gone big and then
moved on is 40 to 50% somehow are happy
they're fishing they're often a lot of
folks go into clean tech and other areas
because they they think that's more
rewarding than business software
I used to think that I don't anymore and
maybe half are unsettled they're
unsettled but no and then I want to talk
more but no not even a moment of H of
doing it for 30 years right if you doing
it for 30 years or more right yeah it's
just who I am so it's just yeah yeah I
don't think in the earlier days maybe
when procore started I don't think we
could imagine folks would be running a
standal and software company for 30
years doing billions of Revenue there
were examples but it seemed crazy to
think about three decades didn't it
absolutely yeah if I had known I was
going to be running this long I don't
know I don't know what decisions I would
have made differently but yeah and
actually people come up to me a lot that
they're like I can't believe you're
still running procore when are they
going to bring in the professionals and
I'm like I don't know I guess it's up to
the
board I don't know we I actually I'm
there's exceptions I did this this
analysis a little while ago that of the
SAS companies at IPO 90% of a founder Co
MH and so I just I don't know my one
bias out there my one or I'm just is
thinking anyone could do better than a
Founder CEO that's all in it's just so
much we underestimate they know so much
I will say this to all of the founders
out there too which is you really want
to make sure that
you as much as you want to be the face
of the business you don't want to be the
you don't want to be the totality of the
business and that's why you can't scale
to a billion dollars in Revenue without
having an amazing team under you that
are doing just phenomenal
work but some Founders conflate
themselves as being the business and and
proor has gotten so much bigger than me
over the years that I'm just the I'm
just the
conductor so I want to dig in on some
details but just give us a landscape of
talk about maybe procore five years in
six years in as a platform like how much
you were able to what it did who your
ICP was what your sweet spot and compare
how much that's evolved now you've got
like a $5 million customer I think that
you talked about how's that evolved
today as a platform not day one but
maybe X years in yes when procore
started we were a by the way for those
of you who don't know procore is a
construction management software
platform but when we started we were a
single Cod code based multitenant and
this is 2002 this is before the word
sass even came out you couldn't even had
your podcast back then because there was
no I misspelled it the first time I
wrote it around 2002 I think I wrote
sces that's actually a really funny
funny anecdote I like that so yeah so at
the time we got lucky that we actually
started off as a single Cod based
multiplatform
architecture but we were primarily
serving the residential custom home
builder in high net worth areas so think
like Asin San Diego Santa Barbara where
we are figure homes or commercial back
yeah and in fact mostly on the west side
of La so like Eddie Murphy's house and
Barbara str's house and Ben Stiller's
house and these folks that are high
Network that are building these kind of
mega
mansions and so what we found was is
that you had the combination of a of an
owner who was probably on the road who
was absent you had so you had a
distributed team you had complexity
because most of these homes are built
like commercial buildings and so you
needed a solution like Pro for so anyway
in the beginning we were very narrowly
focused and so that was our ideal
customer profile was a custom home
builder serving High net worth
individuals and what could they pay you
back then what were they paying this
project we had two versions of our
product we had a full version for $195 a
month and had a a truncated version for
$95 a month and then the business model
made no sense at all and there were
enough Eddie Murphy homes to to get you
there on $195 a month we weren't making
a lot of money but we also were very
Capital efficient right so we I think in
the first nine years of proor existence
we raised $5 million
right we were always very cognizant of
being Capital efficient but yeah
but it was not anything that was like
gonna we were not going to change the
world by any way shape or form but what
it did do was it allowed us to really
focus on the needs of one particular
customer profile that turned out to
really matter which is the project
manager so if you zoom out in the
construction world if you're a project
manager on a Eddie Murphy's house or
nuclear power plant or a whatever a
waste treatment plant or a wind farm you
basically are dealing with the same set
of problems they just are different
scales and they might have different
terminology so what we have that that
allowed us to over the years so like
year five like you mentioned to start
thinking about how do we become a
multi-product multi-stakeholder multi-
Geo company but honestly we didn't even
start doing that until 2016 or 17 so we
were like 14 15 years into it before we
even started and
paring on all of that and by the way
that's one of the advantages that we had
Jason was things first of all it was an
it was a it was an industry nobody cared
about so we had this we were one of very
few that were in there and things
evolved so slowly that it gave us time
to really nail the solutions that we
were bringing to market the iPhone came
out in 2007 iPad came out 2011 we'd
already been in business for five and
seven years at that point before the
real Catalyst came that drove the demand
for what we did so privilege by moving
in a slow tan that was uh that was huge
lots of opportunities for us and so 10
12 years in you're still really an S&B
solution primarily it sounds like pretty
much by the way during the great
financial crisis which is when
everything changed at procore was all of
our custom home builders went out of
business like literally every customer
we had in the world stopped for eight
months it literally stopped yeah it was
tough it was tough but the the only
customers that maintain that were that
were stayed around with us were folks
that did both residential and Commercial
so mostly mixed multi-use so you moved
over facilities so we're all of a sudden
wait a minute this these businesses are
surviving so we're going to go focus on
them and then once everything came out
of the great financial crisis like
around 20112 in our
industry it was really interesting I
actually found a document the other day
in my archive from 2007 of all of our
competitors and there like 20 names I I
don't even remember and and I always I
don't if you surf Jason but if you duck
dive under a wave and on a surfboard you
go underwater you come up the other side
I always think of that as the great
financial crisis because when we ducked
over that wave with 30 other servers
we're the only ones who came up the
other side everybody did it was
extinction level event in the C it was
an extinction level event which gave us
this huge Advantage too of buying us
more time to to capture the market
it's funny I'm dating myself but I
remember I've written that time up and
now it's getting to be a while ago but
actually for because I had all the data
from lobe sign Echo sign and our peers
and all that really happened to us Pro
is so different all that really happened
to us is our children went up but
actually this really interesting even in
08 and 09 our gross growth was there but
like the SNB churn was like because
everyone thought the world was over but
for procore man you must had two years
where it was awful like literally awful
I Steve Z my co-founder and I we went
for two years without taking a salary I
sold everything I own my wife thank
goodness didn't divorce me
and but and I will tell you this if we
didn't have a an amazing investor Kevin
oconor who was the founder of double
click the internet oh yeah he he could
go long yeah and so he basically wrote
us a check for 300,000 bucks and
basically to Keep Us Alive and that
check alone saved procore and wow yeah
in fact he's been on our board for 20
years he's an amazing individual it's
funny I look back at that time and just
as a case I'm like things weren't as bad
as they seemed but I wasn't but I wasn't
selling to an impacted industry it's
just disaster I
remember Pro I think December
2008 I didn't want to spend the problem
is no one wanted to spend any money it
was like massive deflation and so we I
took all the points I had saved up and
flew to Hawaii and stated at the St
Regis on Kawai and everything was points
including food and we I went to the
front desk I'm like can I pay for the
buffet with points they like no one's
ever asked I'm like our our Global
Currency has ended so I'd love to pay
for points yeah for 8 million points you
could pay for the buffet and we went I
went out to the St Ras in December 2008
we were the only people there wow I went
to the bartender right and I'm like
where is
everybody's I mean it was the people
just stopped spending money there
something not going to buy $5 million
custom home in Beverly Hills are they no
and by the way try raising capital in a
market where the real estate is the
poster child for the collapse of the
economy yeah yeah so I should know so
2018 you start to go so two like the GFC
brings you into the commercial side from
residential and then but you're 14 years
in before you really go big Up all In on
what we would call Enterprise and what
was that accelerant what was that what
created that big change so we were being
pulled into bigger and bigger companies
so the the interesting thing about
construction is very transic so project
manager one company goes to work at
another one they bring proor with them
and so we were getting pulled into
bigger and bigger customers and we
decided we were going to focus on one
particular market so we chose the Boston
Metropolitan Market which actually had
some of the largest contractors there
and so we myself and one of our salese
we just went knocking on doors and we
finally found somebody who would let us
in and and we
basically were able to show them the
value what we were able to provide we
clearly were not Enterprise grade at the
time they knew that but they basically
worked with us and then the thing about
the construction industry is because
it's so hyper local if you think about
it if you're a construction company and
you have a DA bulldozer you're not going
to be work 400 miles away because how
you going to get that 25 ton equipment
over there because it's so local every
there's a fomo factor there so the
minute we got one everyone else wanted
to take a meeting with us and so we just
leveraged that to get into all of the
other ones and we would get a p pilot
project and man they would rake us over
the coals and they would put us up in
front of these Committees of 50 people
that were like judging our software and
yeah
we we opened up a whole Enterprise
Market that way and you brute forced it
almost you almost brute forced it that
yeah but the reason we were successful
was because we we just made it about the
customer the whole time it was about the
customer they felt as if they were our
their development shop the product
Organization for prore that trans nature
of the project manager where a real
estate project will wind up and they'll
go to another potential customer and
bring you in um that is the secret sauce
right word of mouth is the secret sauce
I think of all software growth but I
feel like today we're putting so much
pressure on renewal so much pressure on
customers not to leave so much
drama we're almost doing the opposite
are there things that you did to
specially incent that to create some
sort of it's probably not Financial but
to create any sort of community any sort
of positive Loop so that when they went
to the next gig they'd be even more
excited to bring procore in yeah so one
of the things that because the incumbent
software for our entire history whenever
we go into an account has always been
pen and paper or really Microsoft Office
so what happens is when somebody adopts
proor there's some pride that they're
bringing a technology platform into a
underdeveloped company right and people
feel as if they're in the procore club
right right and we take them feel that
way we bring them to they go to
groundbreak our annual user conference
and they feel like they're on the inside
of something that's special and and that
really goes a long the way to building
that that that loyalty and trust
with with those folks and our best
salespeople always have been our
customers they're out there constantly
and also the customers that recognize
that if procore is successful they're
drisking their investment in procore so
they're not they want our success is
actually going to lead to their success
and that's worked really well for us
yeah when people sometimes folks don't
realize when you doing a big process
change like prer is it might be
someone's only app they deploy for a
couple years and do it right they're a
hero do it right they're a hero right
doing wrong their one big initiative is
a miss right it's so funny the back in
the 2016 17 and 18 time frame we walk to
a firm they wouldn't have an IT
department the last software that bought
was their Erp solution it was like 15
years ago they didn't know how to buy
software and so we had to teach them how
to buy software and then have them buy
buy s now it's a completely different
world today like they're it's the
industry is really misunderstood it is a
highly complex industry that is very
data intensive and people think of
construction as guys sitting on the
ibeam whistling at people walking by
that is not the construction industry
construction industry is extremely
complicated with these complex workflows
and lots of liability and low margins
and lots of stakeholders right you have
a lot of stakeholders I think I was
reading your analyst day or your it's 10
stakeholders per deal wasn't it yeah so
there's so well if you think about it
this way an average construction project
a commercial project probably had 30
trades on it and all of those folks so
you have an owner you have GCS you have
the subcontractors and some other folks
all of those folks are people that we
sell to there's a there's an opportunity
for us to be selling to all of these
folks we call the triple Tam because on
one project we can have three different
cohorts of stakeholders that are
customers which is really good for
procore because of the nature of
construction is very collaborative and
all teams all of these stakeholders they
work for different companies but they
all share the same workflows and so to
be able to tie all that together and to
drisk it for everybody is really
advantageous do you have any in any of
the functional areas do you have any
pods that service the different
stakeholders or is it the same teams or
how do you get smart with each of those
different groups so we do we several
years ago we basically changed our go to
market motion to be very focused on
and a hyperscaler building the data
center is really different than a
subcontractor that is you know operating
tobacco so we had to make sure that
people that could talk the talk good
news was is that we one of our secrets
was we
would because the industry is so big and
we have millions of users on our
platform we were able to pull the the
best users into the organization and
then when you go into a sales
opportunity and you bring with you a
sales engineer who's actually an an ex
project manager from the field and as
much as our sales reps can represent
procore really well the that the sales
engineer who's hey I used to sit in your
job in your chair and I used to do
procore and I used it this way and it
say that all of a sudden the game
changed for us is that bringing in the
the resident experts into the deal
really made a big difference yeah I
wanted to ask about that why your
product officer came to annual last year
and I forget what he said his background
was he might have been a carpenter too
or something like that he was straight
out of the industry wasn't he his dad
was a was a contractor in in Colorado so
he worked for him for years but why is
the fame is he's a
DJ he's he traveled the world as like a
very famous DJ where we yeah he's got an
interesting background so let's just
spend a
minute then we can move on but the the
domain expertise topic for vertical
assassin General
is a nuanced one and so to go Enterprise
you're actually going out you're doing
the sales with your sales lead right
you're going in the office is convincing
them that super domain experts you're
bringing in sees and solution experts
now how does that what have you learned
and how has it changed over time how is
procore a big enough brand now you can
get away with hiring some kids out of
college and then not really
understanding what construction software
is not really it's it actually has
nothing to do with the scale it's just
the complexity of the problem space that
we're solving for yeah what's really
interesting is and if I was a if I was
one of your listeners and I was building
a business is brand is one of those
things that is highly misunderstood by
Founders but our brand in the United
States is ubiquitous in construction
everybody knows procore we we basically
are the are the market leader but when
we enter into a new market like when we
go
into UK Ireland we go into the UAE or
whatever you have to remember and as a
Founder you cannot forget that no one
has a clue who you are right so you the
life of the party and then you go to
another party and no one knows who you
are you got to remember that the
Playbook is completely different for
entering new markets because you really
do have to build your brand
intentionally and the vertical market
like procore is you have one chance to
make a good impression with your brand
and if you make a bad impression you're
essentially doomed in that market so we
are very intentional about we go to
market in new GEOS and what's really
interesting is that so we sell into 11
markets today in particular but we
actually have people using procore in
160 countries so because of the fact
that this SAS solution so what we're
doing is we're building brand in all of
these different areas building
stakeholders that are really they love
procore so by the time we actually go to
market in one of these new areas we have
a foundation a brand but we but building
brand has to be very very intentional
takes a lot of boots on the ground and
there's no shortcuts but so when you go
into these deals today you have a big
brand but it's only in the US and it's
only it's it has its limits as your
point you're bringing in it's okay to
have a sales rep that has come out of
Salesforce or B2B environment because
you've got the SE that is the industry
expert and does the
salesperson because these are
sophisticated problems with
sophisticated workflows I don't want to
talk to a sales rep that knows nothing
other than price do I what value does
the sales rep add at procore if in these
sophisticated conversations so we spend
a considerable amount of time enabling
our Sellers as to how to understand not
only the technology but the problem
space that we're solving
for I actually just went through our our
our new enablement boot camp I'm like if
I'm gbody else do it well by the way
lots of pressure on the founder because
everyone saw it I got I nailed it but I
was very I was a little nervous on
but the thing that we find interesting
in our world
is we definitely could bring people
sellers in who've sold elsewhere because
we really do think that selling is the
skill that's needed in order to build
the foundation of how we're we've tried
bringing in people from the industry and
teach them how to be sellers it doesn't
work that well even in the early days
didn't work well it worked well enough
we probably could have done
better yeah by the way you have to bring
the right seller profile into the right
account like we used to hire we would
occasionally hire people from one of the
big tech companies and put them into a
small opportunity and they would
railroad the conversation and the
prospect would be like get out of my
office I don't this I don't buy I I
don't want to be bullied by you Mr name
that big name yep sales rep so but
there's a lot of nuances to all of this
but we do find you got to hire sales
people that understand sales and teach
them construction the thing that I tell
all of our new hires is that as as
insecure as you are walking into your
first meeting with the prospect you have
to remember from their vantage point
they're insecure because they don't
understand technology so it's you're
it's not going to be a one-sided
conversation you're going to bring the
extra tease around the the solution
space that we provide for and the and
the products that we deliver and they're
going to be experts around their problem
space and how they can use our
technology it demystifies the whole
thing but it takes a lot of effort one
of the things I wish we had done better
earlier is to really invest in enable um
it became a cottage industry in this
business where people grew their own
knowledge base based on their
experiences and all which is great but
we didn't have a standardized process
until several years ago and I wish we
had done that earlier much earlier
probably right much yeah I see too many
I see too many folks in specialized
spaces thinking that they can shoot from
the hip because they came out of selling
sales tools if you're a sales rep and
you sold sales tools you could have a
sense what the buyer
I want the high off and it's just I I I
do believe the best in sales can sell
anything but I'm not sure the mid pack
in sales can sell anything without
training I think they need a lot of help
right yeah and I think the problem was
is that our best sellers were had been
grown up in the business they really
understood the space so we bring on
somebody else expecting that they would
just do it and in that would not work so
yes it's it requires some thought and
and investment can we talk about a topic
that's super interesting to me when
you're when you are vertical like
procore which is market share yeah you
called that it was pretty fun I don't
know a lot of public companies it was
fun you called out I think in your
analyst or whatever presentation your
win rates versus your top three
competitor she said you had 63% win rate
and then 86% into Green Field I want to
unpack that but at a meta
level took me a little while to have a
to to be smart here how much market
share do you think you can get if you
really own oh full vertical like peror
you've got like 10 products right you're
automating 10 stakeholders up and down
the stack in terms of functionality
right from invoicing to management to
everything you are the Erp for the
industry right can you get 80% 90% Mark
what's your the goal what do you quietly
telling the team behind you should can
you get 100% market share versus Mark
Ben for years has been claiming he has
18% market share right yeah so our
industry is really unique and by the way
one of the biggest things when we were
raising Capital back in the early days
was everyone was very concerned about
Tam and I'm like look the back then it
was like the Global Construction Tam was
11 to 15 trillion so let's say it's 13
trillion look we believe the vertical
software is a winner take most
opportunity
yeah this is such a big vertical that
it's almost an irrelevant conversation
right so if I was serving a vertical
that had a very limited T I would be
talking a lot about is it a win or take
most and how much what percentage can we
get proor doesn't need get to 80% in
order to be the most successful company
on the planet right we have visions and
goals to get there but for us it's it
always comes back to the customer and I
think one of the reasons when you ask
like how do I sustain this is because
every day for me is centered on our
customers if you just focus on your
customers you will get the market share
that you deserve but don't focus on the
market share to try to get the customers
if that makes sense it's
and so we've always focused on the
customers and then we wake our up and we
look around we're like oh we have a
certain percentage of the market but we
don't conflated the other way that's
that's helpful that it's if your Tam is
Mega right you were criticized at first
but now you're accessing so much bud
your Tam is Mega right you're tapping
into trillions you don't have to sweat
it as much right I asked Andrew Bley
from of clavio of this I don't know
clavio he's one of the best and they're
at a billion growing 30 or 40% but they
have 80% market share on the Shopify
ecosystem and that's big but you gotta
Shopify ecosystem is big as it is it's
not as big as all of Global Construction
so I asked him this question it's like
why shouldn't you get all of
it but as big as that's that is like a
mid high tamam but if you really think
of that multi-trillion it it's so big
that's not your issue is it yeah
actually our issue is Focus right it's
if you're if you have a narrow Tam you
basically know what to do and with us
because there's so many different types
of owners out there so many different
types of GCS and so many different types
of subs and projects and Goos and
international regulations and everything
else the question for us is always where
do you put your next dollar to work and
that's really my job as the CEO is
capital allocation and how do we
actually how do we actually do that in a
disciplined strategic focused way that's
the hard part it's not being limited by
a tan it's funny so proor is
what it's over 1.2 billion in AR right
and so I don't know what your gross
margins are but let's call them 80
roughly so you've got a billion to play
with a year that's your job is like but
and yet it goes so quickly it goes so
yeah it is always funny how no matter
how much revenue you make you're always
constrained yeah uh yeah and I think
about the amount that we put into our
product each year
is it's just hundreds and hundreds of
millions of dollars into R&D hundred of
millions yeah and I just you think about
back in the day when we had million to
put into R&D maybe but the amount that
we actually got done it's all yeah it's
everything that's one thing I always
tell people that I Mentor as Founders
I'm like it never gets any easier it
just gets different it's funny on the
300 Engineers or 300 million versus one
I've noticed that no matter how big you
get every release has three to four
Lighthouse features what did you like we
were at a mill we had a mill million we
could do three to four Lighthouse
features a quarter now granted they
weren't Enterprise grade and they didn't
do much and today it's three to four per
quarter but your point is that yes and
when you get to scale Enterprise braid
adds so much complexity so much yeah
it's a yeah it's I have so much respect
for the engineers at proor and the
product people at proor that do all that
work it's by the way I've re engaged my
my programming chops over the last like
couple of months I've been just writing
stuff in Python like crazy just trying
to that's why you put you went deep seat
local you put it youall it locally on
your laptop right yep yep yeah uh yeah
so I like to write just a bunch of
programs that that Leverage The llms but
also look at procore data and then try
to make sense out of the data in our
system so when was the last time you
coded before that I probably took almost
a decade off yeah yeah I was busy
running procore and frankly my it's not
my it's not my best skill so I wasn't
really there was no demand for it this
is more fun for me like I just realized
I really enjoy
programming yeah I think it's I really
think it's obviously more important for
a CTO but man if the CEO is still a
little bit of a hacker that's a good
sign yeah this is what I from the best
DP avenge C2 I ever worked with the best
one I ever worked with my first startup
we got acquired for a billion and the
company that bought us made him their VP
avenge like they picked him out of the
Target and what I learned for him is
don't hire anyone we're the first line
in their bio whatever where isn't hacker
I don't care how deep they are in there
and I found this like every time I
interview engineering leaders and it's
strategy or or Pro no hacker I want to
see someone that's always a hacker isn't
that the whole thing with the Deep seat
company was that founder only will hire
people with no experience right because
he doesn't want them to bring in their
pre
predisposed biases and something really
interesting to be said for that all
right so maybe let's wrap on AI just for
fun but before we get there a very
tactical topic where I think we're all
we've all learned a lot the last couple
years is strategy and timing on going
multiproduct right and I think I read
again your average customer now uses
three to four products right and the
bigger ones are like five to six meta
learnings to go earlier there did you
sequence it
properly would you do it different
because I find you have to almost move
faster today than when you had one a
handful of competitors that died in the
great financial crisis so what have you
learned learned on how quickly and deep
to go here in vertical SAS my experience
is probably going to be irrelevant to
the new Founders out there because we to
your point we had so much time to to
figure this out because the industry was
moving slow in adoption and there wasn't
a lot of technology I was thinking about
this the other day if I'm a Founder
today and especially if I'm doing
something in AI a 24-hour news cycle can
change my entire business right it take
it from like a huge opportunity to being
completely worthless or or vice versa
yeah I didn't have to deal with that so
just to set the stage like I had time to
get the multiproduct and the pricing and
packaging stuff done in a way that works
and again it always comes back to we
just met our customers with where they
were and we never built a product that
our customers didn't ask us to build and
the the preponderance customers didn't
ask us to build it be it was always very
clear as to when you're serving an
industry that is completely non-d
digitized completely analog
yeah the first second third fourth and
fifth problem are all very obvious
because it's like a it's like an it's
like a layer of an onion right that
there are certain things in project
management that you just have to get
right before you do like drones or
something like you got to get the
fundamentals right for us it was always
very
clear yeah and
then I will tell you that the moving
from a single Product Company to a
multi-product company was one of the
hardest transitions we had to make make
you talk about Capital allocation
challenges now you have to figure out
like where am I going to put my next
dollar to work is there something to
creative across
both it gets much more difficult but if
you listen to your customers you
probably will get it right I find today
the vertical SAS companies that I'm
closest with whether it's in restaurants
or Salon software or others they're all
multiproduct by 10 million earlier they
all have the site they all have workflow
and marketing and payroll invoicing and
SK like you got like the customers just
aren't are too demanding today they
don't want they don't want a little
piece anymore it's got all they why
procore has it all toast has it all what
I'm not gonna buy one little like why
would I buy one little piece that's yeah
the era Point Solutions is over I could
we could do a whole podcast on the
evolution of software adoption in Yeah
by industry but yes it's a good we it
was a different era because we just had
more it was markets were smaller but we
had more you could do things
sequentially you could listen to
customers for a year and then plan that
out and today the rate of change is so
high right in in our world too people
used to download apps and jobsite
trailers like a punch list app or a
document app or a photo app whatever but
what's happened to the industry and this
is going to tee you up for the AI
conversation happened to the industry is
that construction is so data intensive
that having siloed single point point
Solutions is not going to help you what
you really need is a corpus of data not
only your own Corpus of data but you
need the corpus the data of an entire
ecosystem to basically make sense out of
and that's why our business I think is
so primed for future success is that we
have all the construction data you could
ever want we can help people build
better because the patterns are very
obvious and it's a complex thing and
right now the industry relies on people
that are very they have a lot of
experience and pattern recognition but
they're non-scalable right and they tend
to beer in their career and so we
believe that leveraging all this
knowledge that's in our platform is
really going to change the way people
build yes so let's wrap on AI I find
that when I talk to folks that are in
very niches verticals um they're all
fascinated right but they don't
necessarily seem see the same customer
PLL that you do in deep Tech and I see a
more measured approach and now this may
have changed just in the last week we're
talking about deep seek which right or
wrong opened our eyes to hey maybe we
can do 10 times as much as we could do
last week y what tell us what what
you're thinking what you're working on
and how do the customers think about it
are they begging you for more AI do they
want more automation more work Clos do
they want some part of procore just to
be easier to use because it's 2025 like
how are you thinking but also how are
the custo what are the customers asking
for all of what you just said but it by
the way it does start with ease of use
so forget about AI for a second people
need tools that they can actually use so
we invest a lot in our ux kind of
investment front but when it comes comes
to data what people are asking for is
first and foremost our customers tell us
that they can run 50% more construction
volume on uh through their business if
they're running on the procore platform
than if they're not and why that matters
is in the construction industry it's a
very low margin business like two to 3%
gross margin business so you're talking
about 80% like imagine running that
business like a grocery store it's very
difficult low margin and so
every every time you can avoid hiring
the next person especially in a
constrained market like construction
there's not enough people to do the work
you actually have a competitive
Advantage so first and foremost they
want to be to increase the productivity
of their Workforce by leveraging
technology but that's usually starts
with just managing workflows and
capturing data and stuff like that which
is fine but what the industry is waking
up to realize is that wait a
minute a lot of money is lost in
construction because mistakes are made
that shouldn't have been made because
somebody didn't have the pattern
recognition that they need so now that
they want to leverage the data that's in
the platform not just their data but the
anonymized data of the world to be able
to make these uh more informed decisions
and now with agents what they're asking
for is they they want to take the
repetitive work out of their people's
hands and put it into the hands of
Agents so that the people can get
outside of the job site trailer away
from the computer and get back to
building and that's does two things that
makes the company more efficient and it
also attracts more people into the
industry because instead of being you
know paper pushers pencil people they're
actually out building and doing what
they want to do so it's an exciting time
and is there
even a lot of cases when you talk to
real customers one of the reasons they
want the AI is they just can't hire
anybody to do a lot of this basic work
we can't hire anyone to do the data
entry or the input or to sit in the
trailer there's just the turnover is so
high right that the people don't even
exist the human Jason I should tell you
this this is that our industry the
construction industry is probably the
most chronically underst staffed
industry on the planet people just don't
want to get into construction there's a
stigma to it which I really can't stand
but but the reality is there's just not
enough people to do the work so it's not
even people are leaving it's just
they're not even there so yeah you it's
a necessity because they you just here's
the thing like data centers is a big
business right now obviously right
Microsoft's going to spend 80 billion
dollars on data
centers a lot of our customers are
General Contractors as much as they want
to spin up a data center business they
don't have they can't find people to do
the work because there's just not enough
people on the planet that actually know
how to build a data center using you
know products like procore allow them to
do more with less which is really cool
all right last question then we'll wrap
so you're getting back into python you
playing with deep seek what did you have
any Epiphany did you think God if maybe
in a year I could do this with procore I
could just do something in the industry
any AI don't mean to put you on the spot
but any we're all seeing so much change
any anything you all any aha moment you
had out of all of this you know what I
like yes the aha moment is that we're
all limited by our ability to prompt
engineer so I think is is we get better
at prompt engineering we're going to be
able to ask these models much more
sophisticated questions and now that you
actually get Chain of Thought you can
actually ask really deep questions and
really deep and ask for really deep
analysis which is completely different
than just predicting the next word
that's going to come up for me now that
you have these models that are Disney
models that can do this Chain of
Thought I I think that everything is
going to change I think the way that um
I actually think the way construction
gets delivered is going to change
because a lot of the problem a lot of
processes in construction are built
around trying to do risk mitigation
because people know that mistakes are
going to happen if you can prevent those
mistakes from happening you can actually
reduce all the risk mitigation and
actually increase people's profit so I I
just I think yeah I just think there's a
lot that's coming and and it's could not
be a more exciting time to be a
essentially a data company in a industry
that's as big as it as construction is
when you talk about doing tasks that we
don't have humans to do when you talk
about removing errors from Mega projects
does AI over the next couple years does
it unlock more budget from the customers
more true Tam or is it a push like the
customers just deserve this stuff right
I'm not going to pay $2 do for every
resolution or $2 doar for every is it a
push is it more budget do you have a gut
where we stand today there's two
questions in there one is like how do we
think about monetizing this and the
other question is where because what I
would say is for now we're not looking
to create a product line around this
that's going to be separately monetized
now that's always open for debate we
really want to get more feedback from
our customers before we make any sort of
decision on that but I believe that our
industry in particular once they see the
power of AI on their data unlocking
opportunities for them to have higher
margin business or whatever else that to
me is going to unlock more budget to be
able to do more with technology in
general yeah and they may end up buying
more products of ours because we have
more insights that we can deliver or
whatever but so I think they're somewhat
distinct but but yeah I
think I think every industry is going to
start realizing that a dollar invested
in some form of AI is going to deliver
significant returns is you just have to
make sure that dollar goes in the right
place yeah we can wrap on that's what I
love which is that we're getting back to
Our Roots where it's the service like
we're providing 10x value yeah we're not
trying to rip customers off not the
procore does but other vendors we're not
trying to we're growing 8% so we've go
to we've got to get everything out of
our base because we've lost net new
logos there's a lot of that going around
today and we're not about providing 10x
value right I think AI can get us back
to Our Roots where 199 bucks in the old
days of procor whether it's 1.9 million
today I want to provide 19 million of
value or 190 million of value like
that's how you get a customer for life
isn't it yeah and I'll tell you that's
why I really appreciate competition
which is it keeps us on our toes we have
to earn our customer business generally
every year right so we couldn't be in
that business of people we have to
deliver more value than they're they're
paying for significantly in order to
keep these customers so it keeps us
focused on all the right stuff and yeah
and I think that's one of the success
one of the reasons proor has been
successful is that we've forced
ourselves to just be so customer Centric
cool all right this was great too is
there anything we missed that you up and
I know I appreciate you and I always
enjoy getting a chance to talk to you
Jason all right this is great